This document defines the common nomenclature used within POT. Some of the
terms are inherited from KTL; some are inherited from common design patterns
in the broader software world. Where there is a conflict between the two,
we prefer to use the common industry definition rather than traditional use
within WMKO.

	- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
			External definitions
	- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

	WMKO: W. M. Keck Observatory, where POT was initially
		established, in collaboration with WMKO partner
		institutions at the University of California and
		California Institute of Technology.

	KTL: Keck Task Library, the predecessor to POT at WMKO.
		KTL is a key-value application programming interface
		(API), written in C, and has been the dominant API
		for interprocess communication at both WMKO and Lick
		Observatory since the 1990's.

	EPICS: Experimental Physics and Industrial Control System,
		another key-value API that WMKO adopted for its
		telescope control system and adaptive optics control
		system. EPICS is one of the interprocess communication
		APIs that KTL provides a common abstraction for.

	- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
			POT-specific terms
	- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

	POT: POT is not an acronym. It is a reference to the proverb
		"the pot calling the kettle black", where "kettle"
		is the common spoken pronunciation of KTL, and POT
		is the successor to KTL.

	Daemon: a persistent process responsible for some or all of
		the key-value pairs in a given store. When client
		requests are initiated it is the daemon that will be
		contacted to satisfy the request. This is analagous
		to a KTL dispatcher, or an EPICS IOC.

	Store: a store is an aggregation of individual key-value
		pairs. Within a given deployment of POT the store
		will have a unique name. This is analagous to a KTL
		service, or an EPICS database, and is effectively
		an associative array, or a Python dictionary.
		"Database" is another term used in similar contexts,
		but that term is more commonly used in reference to
		a relational database.

	Key: a unique name within a store, identifying a single
		key-value pair. This is analagous to a KTL keyword,
		or an EPICS channel.

	Value: the other half of the key-value pair. Like a KTL
		keyword, a POT value can be one of many native
		types (integer, floating point, string, etc.),
		and includes the possibility of compound values,
		similar to KTL arrays.

	Get: retrieve a value corresponding to an individual key
		in a store. A typical client can issue a blocking
		or a non-blocking (synchronous or asynchronous)
		operation. This is analagous to a KTL read or an
		EPICS get.

	Set: establish a new value for an individual key in a
		store. A typical client can request a blocking
		or a non-blocking (synchronous or asynchronous)
		operation. This is analagous to a KTL modify or
		an EPICS put.

	Publish: broadcast a new value for an individual key in a
		store. The store name combined with the key makes
		up the bulk of the topic, as understood for a
		typical publish-subscribe design pattern.

		https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Publish%E2%80%93subscribe_pattern

	Subscribe: request the receipt of any/all published broadcasts
		of an individual key in a store. This is analagous to
		a KTL monitor or EPICS monitor request.

	Callback: a method to be called whenever a published broadcast
		arrives for an individual key in a store.

	Register: the act of associating a callback with a specific
		key in a store. The callback will now be invoked
		whenever the value of that key changes. "Connect"
		is another term used in similar contexts, but that
		term is more commonly used with network sockets.
