POT clients and daemons communicate using ZeroMQ sockets. This document
describes the socket types used, the formatting of the messages, and the
types of requests that can be made.

	- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

The first socket type implements a request/response pattern. This represents
the bulk of the interactive traffic between a POT client and deamon. Because
requests can be asynchronous, POT does not use the REQ/REP implementation in
ZeroMQ, which enforces a strict one request, one response pattern; instead,
we use DEALER/ROUTER, which allows any amount of messages in any order, in
any direction.

The request/response interaction between the client and daemon is of this form:

	Client says:	b'{'request': 'REQ', 'id': some integer, ...}

	Daemon says:	bJSON: {'message': 'ACK',
				'id': matching the original request,
				'time': timestamp for this acknowledgement}

All messages on ZeroMQ sockets are formatted as raw bytes. JSON is used
as a convenient and portable way to encapsulate both the request and the
response.

The daemon immediately issues the ACK response upon receipt of the request.
The absence of a quick response indicates that the daemon is not available,
and the client should immediately raise an error. After the client receives
the initial ACK it should then look for the full response:

	Daemon says:	bJSON: {'message': 'REP',
				'id': matching the original request,
				'time': timestamp for this response,
				'data': response payload}

After receiving the REP message the request is complete and the daemon will
issue no further messages with this request ID. All requests are handled
fully asynchronously; a client could send a thousand requests in quick
succession, but the responses will not be serialized, and the response order
is not guaranteed. Synchronous behavior is implemented on the client side,
not in the protocol itself.

Here is an example of what the full exchange on the client side might look
like, in this case handling the exchange as a synchronous request:

        self.socket = zmq_context.socket(zmq.DEALER)
        self.socket.setsockopt(zmq.LINGER, 0)
        self.socket.identity = identity.encode()
        self.socket.connect(daemon)

	self.socket.send(request)
	result = self.socket.poll(100) # milliseconds
	if result == 0:
	    raise zmq.ZMQError('no response received in 100 ms')

	ack = self.socket.recv()
	response = self.socket.recv()

Some responses may include a bulk data component. These will be distinguished
by having a 'bulk' attribute set in the response. Here is an example response:

			{'message': 'REP',
			 'id': 0xdeadbeef,
			 'time': 1715738507.234,
			 'data': JSON description of bulk data,
			 'bulk': True}

The 'bulk' setting in the message contents indicates that a binary data blob
will be sent in a separate message. The message format would look like:

	b'kpfguide.LASTIMAGE;bulk deadbeef 6712437631249763124962431...'

...where the first whitespace separated field is largely noise for the REP
case, the important metadata is the unique id linking the two responses,
but the message structure is identical to the PUB version (which needs the
"topic") so that any bulk data handling code can be shared. The second
whitespace separated field is the same unique identifier found in the JSON
from the other half of the response. All remaining data after the subsequent
whitespace is a pure byte sequence representing the payload. Both messages
must arrive in order for either component to have any meaning; the 'data'
from the JSON response will include enough information to reconstruct the
binary blob, which at the present time is only envisioned as image data,
or more generally, something that can be represented as a NumPy array.
Thus, the 'data' would include information like the dimensions of the array
and its datatype (int16, uint32, float64, etc.).

The motivation for separating the bulk data into its own message type is
performance. The bulk data would need to be encoded as a string (base64, etc.)
to be usable in JSON; the encoding step alone is very demanding of processor
time, appending it to a JSON structure makes it an order of magnitude slower.
The combination of these additional processing steps is adequate to prevent
a simple client from saturating a basic gigabit network link with continuous
bulk data requests, whereas saturating the link is trivial with raw bytes.

	- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

This section describes the various requests a client can make of the POT
daemon via the request/response socket.

	'GET': request the current value for a single key. The key is always
		requested by its full unique name: the name of the store, and
		the name of the key, concatenated with a period. The data field
		will be as above in the description of the REQ/REP behavior;
		the data field will be the telemetry value, whether it is an
		integer, floating point number, string, boolean value, etc.
		Bulk data, as described above, is sent as raw bytes in a
		second message.

		Example request:	bJSON: '{'request': 'GET',
						   'name': 'kpfpower.OUTLET_1A',
						   'id': 5742}

		Example ACK:		bJSON: {'message': 'ACK',
						'id': 5742,
						'time': 1723668130.123456}

		Example REP:		bJSON: {'message': 'REP',
						'id': 5742,
						'time': 1723668130.124,
						'data': {'bin': 0,
							 'asc': 'Off'}}

	'SET': request a change to the value of a single key. Depending on
		the daemon, this could result in a variety of behavior, from
		simply caching the value to slewing a telescope, and anything
		in-between. The final response indicates the request is
		complete but does not indicate what the new key value is.

		Example request:	bJSON: '{'request': 'SET',
						   'name': 'kpfpower.OUTLET_1A',
						   'id': 5744,
						   'data': 'On'}

		Example ACK:		bJSON: {'message': 'ACK',
						'id': 5744,
						'time': 1723668131.214123}

		Example REP:		bJSON: {'message': 'REP',
						'id': 5744,
						'time': 1723668134.12549}

		Alternate REP:		bJSON: {'message': 'REP',
						'id': 5744,
						'time': 1723668132.12549,
						'error': {'type': 'ValueError',
							  'text': 'bad input'}}


	'HASH': request the current hash identifier for the configuration
		of a single POT store. If no store name is specified, all
		available hash identifiers will be returned, for all known
		stores. An error will be returned if a store is requested
		and the contacted daemon does not have a cached configuration
		describing it.

		The hash is 32 hexadecimal integers. The actual hash format
		is not particularly important, as long as the source of
		authority is consistent about which hash format it uses--
		and it can be bounded to 32 hexadecimal integers.

		To unify processing the response is always a sequence of
		individual identifiers, even if the sequence is only one
		element long.

		Example request: bJSON: '{'request': 'HASH', 'id': 234}

		Example ACK as above...

		Example REP:	 bJSON: '{'message': 'REP',
					  'id': 234,
					  'data': [{'name': kpfguide,
							'hash': 0x84a30b35...},
						   {'name': kpfmet,
							'hash': 0x983ae10f...}]}'

		Example request: bJSON: '{'request': 'HASH',
					  'id': 236,
					  'data': 'kpfguide'}

		Example ACK as above...

		Example REP:	 bJSON: '{'message': 'REP',
					  'id': 236,
					  'data': [{'name': kpfguide,
							'hash': 0x84a30b35}]}'

	'CONFIG': request the full configuration contents for a single POT
		store. There is no option to dump the configuration data for
		all known stores. A typical client interaction will request
		the configuration hash first, and if the local copy is not a
		match, request the full contents from the daemon to update
		the local cache.

		The configuration contents are not fully described here,
		this is just a representation of the format.

		Example request: bJSON: '{'request': 'CONFIG',
					  'id': 563,
					  'name': 'kpfguide'}

		Example ACK as above...

		Example REP:	 bJSON: '{'message': 'REP',
					  'id': 563,
					  'data': {'name': kpfguide,
						   'hash': 0x84a30b35...,
						   'origin': somehostname,
						   'stratum': 0,
						   'time': 1724892333.924,
						   'keys': [{...},
							    {...},
							    ...]}}'

	- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

The second socket type implements a publish/subscribe socket pattern. The
desired functionality in POT is a neat match for the PUB/SUB socket pattern
offered by ZeroMQ:

	* SUB clients subscribe to one or more topics from
	  a given PUB socket, or can subscribe to all topics
	  by subscribing to the empty string. This aligns well
	  with existing usage patterns, where KTL keyword
	  names and EPICS channel names are treated as unique
	  identifiers, and map easily to a PUB/SUB topic.

	* The filtering of topics occurs on the daemon side,
	  so if a PUB is publishing a mixture of high-frequency
	  values or large broadcasts, and a client is not
	  subscribed to those topics, the broadcasts are never
	  sent to the client.

The ZeroMQ messages received by the client include the full topic as the
leading element in the message-as-bytes, followed by a space, followed by
the remainder of the message contents. The structure of a simple broadcast
mimics the form of the request/response exchange described above:

	Daemon says:	b'unique_topic_string JSON...'

	JSON expanded:	{'message': 'PUB',
			 'id': eight hexadecimal digits,
			 'time': timestamp for this broadcast,
			 'name': unique POT key name,
			 'data': current key value}

There are two special types of broadcast messages. These are distinguished
by a modifier on the topic string. The first type is the bulk/binary data
broadcast type, as described above for a REP response; there is a similar
PUB broadcast with otherwise exactly the same structure, setting the 'bulk'
flag in the PUB message to True, and the bulk data transmitted in a separate
message.

The second type of special broadcast message is a bundle of related broadcasts.
If a daemon so chooses, it can collect related telemetry in a single broadcast;
this offers clients the option of treating the entire bundle as an atomic
entity. Each bundle is a sequence of simple JSON messages as described above.

If, for example, there was a bundle of telemetry messages relating to a filter
wheel, the individual items might have names like:

	deimot.FILTERNAM
	deimot.FILTERORD
	deimot.FILTERRAW

The POT daemon could elect to broadcast a single bundle containing all of those
values. The bundle message would have a topic identifier of:

	deimot.FILTER;bundle

The formatting of the on-the-wire message would be:

	b'deimot.FILTER;bundle JSON...'

...where the JSON would be a sequence of individual PUB elements as described
above:

	[{'message': 'PUB', 'id': 0x0123abcd, 'name': deimot.FILTERNAM, ...},
	 {'message': 'PUB', 'id': 0x0123abcd, 'name': deimot.FILTERORD, ...},
	 {'message': 'PUB', 'id': 0x0123abcd, 'name': deimot.FILTERRAW, ...}]

The 'id' field would be identical for all messages in the bundle, but all
remaining fields would vary according to the message contents.

	- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

This section is a description of the various fields used in the JSON messaging
described above.

	'message': a one-word assertion of the type of content represented
		by this JSON. It is one of a few values:

		'ACK': immediate acknowledgement of a request. If this
			response is not received with a very small time
			window after the initial request, the client can
			and should assume the daemon handling that request
			is offline.

		'REP': a response to a direct request. This will contain
			the full data responding to a request to get a
			value, or the completion status of setting a value.

		'PUB': an asynchronous broadcast of an event. There aren't
			any other types of message that will arrive on a
			SUB socket, the inclusion of this field is strictly
			for symmetry's sake.

	'id': an eight character hexadecimal value reasonably unique to
		this specific transaction. The 'unique' constraint doesn't
		need to extend beyond a few minutes, at most, for any
		transaction; the id allows the client to tie together
		ACK and REP messages, to combine the JSON with the data
		buffer for a 'bulk' broadcast, and to further associate
		individual PUB messages contained in a 'bundle' broadcast.
		For client-initiated requests, the client is expected to
		provide a sufficiently unique integer to allow it to
		associate all responses with the initial request. For
		daemon-initiated broadcasts, the uniqueness constraint
		should only be applied for a given key name, as opposed
		to being unique across an entire store or daemon.

	'time': a UNIX epoch timestamp associated with the generation of
		the event. This is not intended to represent any time
		prior to the actual broadcast or response, it is intended
		to represent the time at which that message was created,
		such that 'now' - 'time' should represent the transmission
		and POT handling delay between the daemon and the client.
		This timestamp should not be expected to represent the
		last known change of the value in question, though in some
		(if not most) cases it will be a reasonable approximation.

	'name': the unique POT key name, or the unique POT store name for
		some of the metadata queries. The POT key name, at the
		protocol level, is a concatenation of the POT store name
		and the key name within that store. In KTL parlance, this
		would be the service.KEYWORD name; in EPICS parlance, it
		would be the full IOC+channel name, as one might use with
		caput or caget on the command line.

	'data': the real payload of the message. For a read operation, this
		will be the telemetry requested, whether it be a string,
		integer, floating point number, or short sequence. For a
		response with no data this field will either not be present
		or it will be the JSON null value.

	'bulk': a boolean flag indicating there is a separate bulk-formatted
		message that will contain the bulk data associated with
		the message. If the value is not present, or is the JSON
		null value, or is the JSON False value, there is no bulk
		message.

	'error': a JSON dictionary with information about any error that
		occurred while processing the request. If the value is
		not present or is the JSON null value, no error occurred.
		If it is present, it will have these values:

		'type': analagous to the Python exception type (ValueError,
			TypeError, etc.).

		'text': descriptive text of the error.

		'debug': optional additional information about the error,
			 such as a Python traceback

		The intent of this error field is not to provide enough
		information for debugging of code, it is intended to
		provide enough information to the client for it to perform
		meaningful error handling.
